You live in what you say is called a San Francisco flat.
Right.
Which is what?
It's like a full house?
It's the one floor of a house.
Matter of fact, I live on that floor of that building.
That's the third floor.
Right.
So, you know, deciding whether to take the books upstairs or not was kind of...
My preference was to put them in the basement here.
And this sign was right outside your door?
Right there.
Wow.
And that was—there were several—I've asked around.
There were others around town, but that one happened to be right outside my door.
And what district of the city do you live in?
That's the—I guess they call it the Panhandle.
Oh, you're in the Panhandle.
See, that's Golden Gate Park down there.
Right near Golden Gate, aren't they?
Yeah.
Okay.
And which of these materials can I take with me?
You can take, no, let's see.
This one I do.
And this is the code.
And this.
This is, these are just all the books with one copy remaining all kind of gathered together.
Yeah, in the system.
Right.
And then this is a kind of study I made of, and a report I made of the books, which I hope is lucid.
I've given that around in a lot of, I've handed it around as much as I could during the Library Association Convention here, whatever you called it.
Well, this is terrific, actually.
Yeah, I tried to summarize it.
Can you just tell me a little bit about your—you said you were involved in social research and all kinds of things.
I mean, this clearly is the work of a professional woman.
I mean, it's a—this is not a haphazard— No, I pulled on my rusty old skills to do that.
Well, I studied sociology and did some graduate work at the University of Chicago, and then worked on various research projects, coding questionnaires, as I came on.
For various foundations?
Yeah, well, at the University of Chicago I worked for the social science research something.
And then I worked for the American Jewish Committee in New York City on a study years ago.
It's fascinating about people's attitudes towards doctors.
They were having trouble then.
But most of my employment as a social researcher was here.
I worked in Berkeley on an aging study, geriatrics.
This is when?
That was, let's see, in the early sixties.
And then I worked at Langley Porter Neuropsychiatric Clinic, a sub-study.
Again, it was geriatrics research.
But this is sort of interviewing people.
My wife did something.
Yeah, interviewing people, long interviews, ten-hour interviews.
She did an Alzheimer's project for Cornell.
in front of the project.
There's actually still a quarter.
She worked in it for about five years or so.
They're doing interviews.
Panel studies?
Yeah.
It's called the Caregivers Project, the people who give what it's like for the person who takes care of the family member with Alzheimer's.
I guess they got money to do it, and what they'll ever do with the data is, you know, news to us.
Well, they would periodically put out papers.
I put out a paper with Marjorie Lonefall.
She was the director.
Some, you know, little slice of the data.
They had these huge computers, you know, and they'd run out content analyses and things like that on them.
politically active things, the war, the, you know, this was a pretty interesting part of the world.
Oh, yeah.
Well, some of the tapes that went were taped.
I spent a lot of time out in the streets running around with people and hollering.
I mean, we're talking in the sixties now, right?
Well, not in the sixties.
I was raising a child in the sixties.
The only thing I did in the sixties was I went on one march and I interviewed everybody.
I tried to walk faster or slower.
So you were being a professional woman at the time.
Yeah, I was just checking out, why are you marching?
How did you hear about it?
But then, I think it was in the late 70s, my kid was getting to be a teenager and I was sitting biting my nails and about climbing the walls over
I felt, sitting alone in this room and thinking, this is insane, I've got to do something about this insanity.
And I joined a group, and I hate groups, but I joined a group.
We met every week, and we devised, we became affiliated with another group, and so we were part of the nuclear freeze movement before it became the nuclear freeze movement.
So it basically started with anti-nuclear concerns, although there was a strike when I was still working at UC.
There was a strike at Student Days of Protest.
I don't know what it was about, but we took over all of the compute—we used all the equipment just for what we wanted to say instead of what the organization wanted to say.
That was kind of fun.
One of the phrases Coulter used today was, he says he, by the way, is a liberal Democrat.
Well, liberals.
But then he described the gadflies as lefties.
I said, Jesus, I haven't heard that word in ages, you know, to describe.
But he was throwing this into the discourse, you know.
like your left-wing, radical, agitating type groups who are looking for a cause.
They suggested, perhaps, that there's no war to fight.
Maybe this is the cause du jour, that kind of thing.
How do you respond to that?
Because he basically suggested that.
He's fishing, because the fact is that it's a very disparate group of people.
And there may be some people who have radical backgrounds.
That's a very good point.
That's excellent.
He doesn't know it.
He doesn't know where we're coming from.
That's a very good point.
You know, there's a couple of people who are pro-labor.
There's some that I haven't figured out yet that I'm wary of because I think when
You know, if I was to sit down with this group of people and start making really serious objections to the computers, we'd fall apart.
There are people there that are, you know, I just don't know where they're coming from.
And they're not, they're not.
It's not a political thing.
No.
I think it's an ethical thing.
It's an ethical thing about books.
A cultural thing, an intellectual thing.
It's partly, there is, and it was created by Coler, there is an outrage about the subversion of the democratic process, which is what he did.
So people are almost unanimously enraged at the feeling that their legitimate concerns are being misinterpreted
And treated with contempt.
And in fact, that got said to him in his face by Tilly Olsen, for one.
I'm seeing Tilly tomorrow, by the way.
Oh, well, she's a radical.
I love Tilly.
I got her book today, Silences.
I called her to arrange today, and she said to me, I'm reading your book, my book.
And she said, I'm loving it.
I said, well... She's a dear.
I said, well, I'm reading your book and loving it.
I said, we'll have a nice conversation tomorrow.
Yeah, she really gave it to him, because he had said something.
I don't want to get it.
Well, she may be a radical, but her credentials are so impeccable.
She's a writer.
She's a person who uses collections.
She loves libraries.
She's self-educated.
And she produces, she contributes to our culture, and she discovers that they've raped us, you know, that they've stripped the collection.
And that's a pretty tough one, too.
And he was really fishing today.
I'm sure you've been talking to this when he's trying to
get me to confirm, you know, who I've been talking to.
And I said, Mr. Coulter, I want to tell you, I'm really, I'm talking to everyone.
I said, everyone, I mean, everyone I can talk to this week, and I'll probably have to come back.
I hope I don't.
I mean, I want to come back, but I'd love to get sufficient information and write this chapter.
This is one chapter in the book.
I said, you know, don't, don't, don't, don't,
hurt yourself.
I'm sorry, I'm getting a little inarticulating on myself.
I said, I'm really trying to talk to everybody, yourself included.
Ken Dow and Gina, you know, I want to talk to everybody.
And he already knows.
He said, I know you're going over there Wednesday and you're going to see, apparently you've requested to see Brooks Hall.
I said, not apparently, I have.
And I said, I intend to see it.
I said, TV cameras are gone in there, and I'm writing a book.
I said, I think it's essential that I see it.
It's absolutely part of the story.
I went in there once.
I got caught.
I went in with a truck.
Up goes the gate, truck goes in, and I walk along with the truck.
And I go in, and it was the day after they had put the old card catalog.
in Brooks Hall.
They had finally brought it over from the Old Main.
It was getting ready to be scuttled, and it was saved, right?
Right, right.
Nicholson Baker saved it by filing a suit and turned them into public records, and then they couldn't get rid of them.
They were going to sell them along with all the other stuff they sold.
I have pictures here of the—this is one of the murals in the Old Main.
These were auctioned off.
This was lot number 107.
This is one of the card catalogs from the other library.
What they did was they put them together with whole lots of furniture.
There would be one card catalog and then six decks and twenty-five chairs and stuff.
And if there wasn't a card catalog in one of those lots,
There'd be no bid.
They didn't advertise the thing.
They only made $7,500 on all of the furniture.
And most of it they made on the... Well, I'd say they averaged between $20 and $100 for one of these card cabinets.
Yeah, that's it.
It's very sad, because if they hadn't auctioned them off, here's the main card catalog part of it.
That's the one that they moved to Brooks Hall.
That's the one that Nicholson Baker saved.
And you'll see it down there.
I'll take some pictures.
Yeah.
So these are just one card catalog after another that they auctioned off.
You took a lot of pictures.
So what happened?
Did they tell you to leave?
Well, I noticed they were watching me.
No, they let me go on taking the pictures of that.
But at the auction, they held the auction.
It was surreal.
They held the auction at the top of the main staircase.
on the balcony, and then the stairs go down like this.
And so the auctioneers were at the far end, and everybody was strung along these pillars.
I don't have a picture of that, because they wouldn't let me take pictures in there.
But there were these pillars along the walkways on the sides where the elegant murals are that are being fought over now, because the Asian Art Museum that's moving in there wants to take them down.
They're not suitable, although they're only sort of vague trees.
Are they WPA things?
Sort of, no.
They're wonderful.
I love all those.
These are not that style.
These are very— They're pre-art deco?
Yeah, they're very mild-mannered.
And then there's a lot of writings on the walls that have to be taken down.
And I got an audio tape of the auctioneer, and they'd start with, over and over, they'd start with 50, 40, 30, 10, and then they'd hit 10, and maybe they could get someone to stick up a card to, for $10, get one of these whole lots of furniture.
But if there were a card catalog in it, they'd get a couple of beads.
But there weren't enough people to bid against each other.
Oh, so it goes.
Yeah.
It's sad.
It's sort of like a bloodless revolution, you know?
You know what?
I think I've got lots of stuff.
Do you think there's anything else I need?
Not that I can think of now, but I wanted to... I'm seeing Walter Biller tomorrow morning.
Oh, he's really... That's... And I'm seeing Killy, and I'm seeing Chafee at the wrong time.
Okay, you're going to... Fine, I lost it.
Anyway, that's like unloading stuff from the Old Main Library.
And you know what it says, over the Old Main Library?
You need that quote.
I don't know if I have it.
Tilly knows it by heart, however.
Walk over it.
Yeah.
What is it, roughly?
May this thing built on imperishable books last forever or something.
Well, that could be the beginning of the chapter.
Yes, indeed.
Quote, over the Old Main.
Yeah.
I think we'll go right now.
And then I wanted to be sure to show you, or tell you, I don't know if you'll have time for him, it's another man that is into books.
His name is David Farrelly.
David.
F-A-R-R-E-L-Y.
Why has it vanished?
You've taken pictures, you've done audio tapes, you've gone over for books, you've gone to meetings, you've mobilized people.
Would you say you're obsessed by this?
Yes, I would, and I have.
And I need to recover because I have become occasionally anxiety-ridden.
I mean, I'm really nervous and intense, and I've let other parts of my life get out of order.
So it's like I'm sort of...
And this still needs some kind of order.
I mean, I need to be able to put the books up on shelves in order or get them off my hands, you know, because it's... Yes, I'm obsessed.
You'd like to be done with this?
I think maybe, although I never thought that would happen, but I think... I don't know, maybe I got exasperated with...
The day that I was interviewing people who couldn't get into the library, my car was illegally towed away from right up on Grove Street there.
There's a whole row of cars, all parked, and I came, you know, like they had marked off, tow-away zone, don't park, all around Civic Center, all around this block of, oh, I'm pointing wrong, all around the library itself, but across the street from the library,
There were no signs, and there were a whole lot of cars parked.
A car pulled out just as I pulled out.
I'm lucky.
I got a parking place.
Parked there.
And lo and behold, later on, all those cars had been towed away.
This isn't every night, I hope, when I'm parked there.
No, no.
No, it was for that mayor's conference.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
Yeah, no, no.
Although I'm leery, across the street there is a sign towed away.
I cannot believe.
This is another friend.
This is a brilliant fellow.
Yeah.
He is collecting books to give to—they're all over this car.
It is phenomenal.
He's getting them from community thrift shops.
These are just
books are piling out of this culture, just pouring out of them.
That's his number.
And I talked to him last night, and he'd be quite happy to talk to you if you want to talk to him.
His concern is to get these books somewhere, perhaps to prisons, because he'll tell you about how prisons are the third world in the third world here, and that California is the
found land for that, since we had such a high proportion of people stuck away in prisons.
But these are books, these are also library books?
No, no, no library books.
He just, these are just books.
I happened, somebody told me about him because they thought I was totally obsessive about all books, although I have taken books too from the library
You know, the public gives the library books that I suppose they think are going to go into the collection, or going to help the library somehow.
All right, books are gone.
Those go to twenty-five cent sales, yeah.
But every library does that to us.
Right.
And if they don't sell them, what they do is they trash them.
They admit that they send them to the dump.
And I know people who have been digging around in
What do you call those bins?
Dumpsters.
Dumpsters, you know.
In the dumpster with the books, finding great old books and getting them out.
So at any rate, I have gone to—what the Friends of the Library do is to offer to community groups who are interested at the end of the sale to come and take whatever books they want, because they know that if they don't go that day, then they get dumped.
If I have time to give David a call, I will.
You'll find him a very interesting person, very high energy.
Does he bring all these books to his home?
Yeah, that's next door to his house.
But his room, I went up, I met him once, I went into his room, and you could just barely get in through a little pathway, and then there was a little corner area with two chairs where you could sit and a window.
And that was the space he had left to live in, and it was all just stacked to the ceiling with books.
What explained his passion for them, do you think?
He's a passionate person.
He wrote a book called The Bamboo Book, and it's all about bamboo.
It was kind of a 60s book.
It was published?
Yeah, big paperback, big oversized thing, and it had everything you ever wanted to know and ever didn't care if you didn't know about bamboos.
He thought it might save, you know, like you can make paper out of it and you can, the trouble is, what he doesn't admit in there, he had me convinced and I was telling people about bamboo and they'd just look at me and say, it takes over.
You can't control it.
The root system, it's hard to control.
Oh, and one other thing, you have to have another book.
This is your book.
Yeah, Poems.
Oh, okay.
You don't have to.
You must not accept it if you... Oh, I thank you.
And this is supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts.
Congratulations.
Well, thank you.
It'll give me a sense of you, I guess.
Well, it'll give you a sense of where I'm coming from in relation to technology.
You're giving this to me?
Yeah.
Would you describe it for me?
I never know how to do that.
You're a book person.
You know.
Yeah, you say whatever you want.
It's my card, I believe.
It's my card.
Thank you.
You could call me Nick or Nicholas or whatever, but it was such a great kind.
I believe people who write poetry reveal everything in their poetry.
Don't you think?
Let me think a second.
And dated, too.
And how did the grant come into being?
Uh, through, uh,
A poetry workshop that was run by a poet by the name of Stephanie Mines.
Congratulations.
How long have you been writing poetry?
Oh, years, the date.
Today's September 8th, 1997.
And then you can write San Francisco, too.
It's all part of the echo, you know, makes it a place and time.
Yeah, that makes it so nice.
Thank you.
You're very welcome.
That's great.
Well, what I might say about that is that they are
a number of poems that were written over a period of time and not necessarily in connection with each other, but I arranged them in the form of a monomyth.
Is that yours?
That's yours.
You have basically that.
Okay.
If I have that information, there's no need to replicate it.
Right.
This is in order of publication.
But I can derive that.
One of the lists is, I think, in order of publication.
So it's in the form of a monomyth, Joseph Campbell's.
of a boiled down analysis of what all the ancient myths are composed of, which is that you have a setting, a locality, a community.
It's going along.
It's threatened by something from outside.
Something comes upon it, and it has to deal with it.
doesn't necessarily come into their midst, but they are threatened.
The hero takes on the responsibility for dealing with this threat and goes forth to save the community from the threat and then returns in some form or other, might be transformed into another life form, you know, might not have made it through the...
grows himself in encountering the dragon.
So would you say, is it just coincidental that the Great Panthers abuts the library that explains part of your interest in this, or that you could see things going on here from where you are?
I think just totally coincidental that we happened to be here.
It is literally right out the door here.
Right.
No, although it was distressing from the get-go to see the construction process beginning, again, feeling that the system is coming in upon us.
That used to be open space, a parking lot, green lawn, and a little kind of...
Yeah, so as we would come and go from the office, it wasn't just me, we would see there were other people that were even more hostile to the idea.
I didn't have a lot of reaction.
I had more important things on my mind.
But I didn't like that the pleasant kind of open space thing was going to be intruded upon.
I didn't know anything about what was coming our way.
And then when they started really working and excavating, that was distinctly unpleasant, and they didn't like that.
And then there was a fight over this, and they spent a million dollars to move a huge statue, which is now between, you'll see it, it's a, I can't remember what it's called, it's a huge, on a big pedestal statue of a
figures and a kneeling Indian.
He told me about that.
So the Indian community, the Native American community, did not feature preserving this thing at all, so there got to be a great fight, and so they spent all this money to move that huge heavy thing over to where it is now in order to accommodate that weird design on the back of the building.
Amazing.
I'm going to talk to the architect.
Let me talk to that woman and see what
Well, there were a lot of fights between bureaucracies.
There was the art commission, there was the Department of Public Works, and there's the city planning department.
Anyway, part of the difficulty was that the work orders kept changing.
But Coulter was in the midst of that.
I mean, I always figured that he had a lot to do with the— I have an 800 number, too, by the way, which I'll just give you.
With the changes that took place.
And one of the changes—don't let him kid you—it wasn't just money being taken away.
One of the changes was that the original design called for another floor than there is, and that floor got lost because when they dug down,
They found water, and they couldn't put anything in that close to the water, so they had to move up everything that was happening.
So that was one of the reasons that was given for losing a floor.
Do you mind telling me how old you are?
You don't have to, but you're— Sixty-five.
Great Panthers don't lie about their age.
And so how long have you been a Great Panther?
Well, I guess it's getting on about 20 years or longer.
So there's no age, you just join it for issues?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, kids can join, because it's an intergenerational, we're perceived as only older people, and in fact, in this group, there aren't any younger ones.
We keep inviting them, and they don't want any part of us.
That's important, you know.
I mean, I said to myself, this woman can't be, I'm looking at you, I mean, you're not 70, that's for sure, you know, and I went home, I said,
I had this impression, you know, when you hear of Grey Panther, that this is this retired lady, you know, that's just not the case.
Don't I wish.
That's just not the case.
No, some of them, I mean, a lot of our members, we're an aging organization, and unless we get in new blood, we're going to be, you know, like,
People get sick, and they get put in nursing homes, and they fall down and break their knees.
So we're having a convention here in a month.
A national convention?
Yeah.
And our founder, Maggie Kuhn, who's a—she's why I joined.
I thought, okay, I don't know what else— Maggie Kuhn, K-U-H-N.
She was a witty, smart, brash.
fiesty, marvelous human being.
I love the name, The Great Phantist, too.
It's wonderful.
Yeah, yeah.
But she just died a year or two ago, so we had an organizational identity crisis, and apparently a lot of power-shifting stuff going on in Washington where the main offices are.
It's a national organization, and so we're just recovering from that, trying to get restructured
And so we're going to have a convention here at the end of this month and hopefully settle some differences that have been coming up.
Like the national office will make some kind of decision and not let us know, and then we'll just be told that we're a little too independent for that.
That does not go down well.
Well listen, I'm going to, I think I've taken up two hours a week.
got made over the months.
I took them out of the newsletter, and I put it together to give to the people at the library conference, or what do you call it, the Library Association Convention that was here.
And then we handed these out on a most— Here comes the information superhighway you're talking about, yeah.
Yeah, and we—a bunch of us, the Grey Panthers,
went to the Mosconi Center where the convention was being held and stood in the hallway.
And on this side was, let's see if I can make sure I can't mistake this, Kathy Page was doing, the librarian, the former librarian, was doing a presentation.
And on the other side, I think it was Ken Dallin.
Yeah, he was talking about how to, I don't know, one of them was talking about how to raise money for
Anyway, we were standing in between handing this thing out.
That's funny.
It was funny.
Have you read any of these books that you've taken?
Oh, that's why, yes.
You know when somebody else kind of wanders around the house and wonders what they're going to do and they turn on the TV?
Well, I don't turn on the TV, I never have.
I've been wandering around the house, getting to those points of what am I going to do, and I
reach into one of the boxes and pick out a book.
And I have read, that's part of the reason I'm addled, I have read probably, not all of, but seriously into maybe fifty books over the past, say, six months or so, or maybe a year.
But the first part of the time I was in this frenzy.
I didn't have time to read.
It was a project at that point.
But since then I'm left with all these sort of leftover books, right?
And I'm curious about them, and in fact the ones on the stairs are the ones that I was down in the basement writing out the index cards on, and I keep another box beside me.
That's a book I need to kind of check out when I get a chance.
So they're lined up on my stairs going up into my flat, but there are other books already
in my flat that I had special interest in.
So there's just this kind of bottomless pit of books yet for me to check out.
And what happens is I don't read all of them, but I— You dip into them.
Right, right.
And then, not having a system, I kind of pile them up next to the bed.
So I get surrounded.
And any of them particularly grabbing you as you go along?
Can you think of any of that?
One that really impressed me was a book that surprised me by Mark Twain called... They deaccessioned a Mark Twain book?
Yeah.
That you got?
They had other copies.
Oh, I see.
Okay.
About Joan of Arc.
I know that book.
I haven't read it, but I know it.
Well, I read it.
I don't think I want... You know, there's so many... It's like this... My head is like...
all chopped up, you know, like there are other books too.
But that one, I was so impressed by his almost belief in the myth of Joan of Arc.
Well, he believed in a lot of weird things.
Yeah, yeah.
He liked to come on like a kind of a, what would be the word?
I'm too tired now.
I'm exhausted myself.
Let's go.
We've done it.